Strength Builders
	Push Ups
	Squat
	Plank
	Body Row or Chin up/Pull up
Cardio Exercises
	Jumping Jacks
	High Knees
	Mountain Climbers
	Corrective Movements
	Glute bridge
	Split Squat/Lunge
	Bird Dog


Slam Ball
Lift the ball above your head and slam it down to the ground. Catch it, lift it back up, and repeat as many times as you can for 50 seconds. This move will help develop your core for "ground and pound striking."

Knee Kicks
Lift your arms overhead and pull them down to your side as your knee comes up to your chest. Do this alternating on each side. Build up to multiple kicks per side before switching.

Defenses
Fall into the push up position and let your hips touch the ground and get back up. This move is great at preparing your for takedown defense and building your core. You can think of them as "MMA burpees."

Pushups
Keep your arms against your body so you are using your triceps and extending your arms. This movement mirrors how you punch.

Jumps Over Bag or Shield
Jump over a bag or a shield laying on the floor without hopping or double jumping in between. Keep your feet together and immediately push off the ground each time.

Bicep Curls
Rutten likes to do his bicep curls holding a kettlebell, but says you can use any kind of weights accessible to you.

Japanese Situps
Lay on your back with your legs in a tabletop position. Use your core (and some momentum) to hop your back off of the floor. This is great for arm bars and triangle choke attempts for guard, plus it's a tough ab exercise.

Ground and Pound on Bag or Shield
Straddle your bag and use your elbow to strike it. You can also perform knee strikes to target both the upper and lower body.

Sprints
Set two markers on the ground about 30 feet apart. Run back and forth as many times as you can in 50 seconds. As you approach the marker each time, slow down to tap the ground. You'll want to "put the brakes on" so you don't run past your marker. This is a tough conditioning exercise that will really get your heart rate up.

Squats
Perform deep squats. For an extra challenge, make these jumping squats by bringing your knees to your chest.

Kettlebell Swings
Keep your arms straight as you swing the kettlebell. Make sure the movement comes from your hips, not from your shoulders. This helps develop powerful hips to stop takedowns.

Twists
Rutten developed this move himself to work the core muscles. Stand in a horse stance and cross your arms in front of you in an "X". Start twisting your upper body side to side with explosive power and speed while keeping your head and lower body perfectly still.
